crABI v1 (#3470)
rust-lang/rfcs: text/3470-crabi-v1.md

- Feature Name: `crabi1`
- Start Date: 2023-07-26
- RFC PR: [rust-lang/rfcs#3470](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3470)
- Rust Issue: [rust-lang/rust#0000](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues/0000)

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

Provide the initial version of a new ABI and in-memory representation
supporting interoperability between high-level programming languages that have
safe data types.

Provide the infrastructure to support and evolve towards future versions.

This work was already part of a
[compiler MCP](https://github.com/rust-lang/compiler-team/issues/631), but that
MCP just proposed the concept and requirements and goals of crABI, not a
concrete ABI. This RFC defines the initial version of the concrete ABI.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

Today, developers building projects incorporating multiple languages, or
calling a library written in one language from another, often have to use the C

> ABI as a lowest-common-denominator for cross-language function calls. As a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ABI as a lowest common denominator for cross-language function calls. As a
```
("Lowest common denominator" doesn't have any compound adjectives.)

result, such cross-language calls use unsafe C representations, even for types
that both languages understand. For instance, passing a string from Rust to
another high-level language will typically use an unsafe C `char *`, even if
both languages have a safe type for counted UTF-8 strings.

For popular pairs of languages, developers sometimes create higher-level

> binding layers for combining those languages. However, the creation of such

Reviewer: ```suggestion
binding layers to support communication between those languages. However, the creation of such
```

enablement work in other languages or runtimes, rather than just building on
existing support for C FFI.

# Rust language interface and interaction with other features
[language-interface]: #language-interface

The Rust implementation of crABI will include:
- An ABI for defining functions or referencing external functions:
  `extern "crabi"`.
- A repr for laying out data structures (`struct`, `union`, `enum`) compatible
  with crABI: `repr(crabi)`.
- A new lint `improper_crabi_types`, analogous to `improper_ctypes`. This lint
  defaults to `deny`.

crABI structures and functions also support any structure defined using
`repr(C)`, as well as enums that have a discriminant type specified.

crABI structures and functions support types defined using `repr(transparent)`
if they would support the type of the field.

For an enum, the crABI `repr` allows additionally specifying the discriminant
type: `repr(crabi, u8)`. If an `enum` specifies `repr(crabi)` but does not
specify a discriminant type, the enum is guaranteed to use the smallest
discriminant type that holds the maximum discriminant value used by a variant
in the enum. (This differs from the behavior of `repr(C)` enums without a

> discriminant type.)

Reviewer: I don't think this should differ. For a start it contradicts the paragraph about C ABI compatibility at lines 69-72 above. The representation of an `enum` in C is implementation-defined as far as the standard is concerned, but in practice you can assume it is a well-defined function, for each platform, of the minimum and maximum enumeration values. (Typically, it has the same representation as the smallest standard integer type that can represent the elements potentially subject to some minimum width.)

I don't think users will expect `repr(crabi)` to differ from `repr(C)` here. It is better to write `repr(crabi, u8)` if that's what you mean.

What we need to specify is what the niche value is for `Option` of an `enum` type, if we are supporting niche-value optimization for `enums` (and I think we should). The obvious answer is "0 if possible, otherwise the maximum value of the chosen integer type if possible, otherwise niche-value optimization is not supported".

crABI supports passing and storing pointers to `repr(Rust)` structures, to
allow using these opaque pointers as handles, but does not support passing such
structures by value.

crABI works in combination with `repr(align)`, with the same meaning.

crABI does not support `repr(packed)`.

# crABI versioning and evolution
[crabi-versioning-and-evolution]: #crabi-versioning-and-evolution

> crABI has has a major and minor version number, similar to semver.

Reviewer 2: Just a small typo here, `has has`

The major version number will change if crABI changes *incompatibly*; for
instance, crABI 2.0 would not necessarily interoperate with crABI 1.3.

The minor version number will change if crABI changes *compatibly*, such that
newer callers can understand and work with older functions and structures.
Older callers cannot necessarily understand and work with newer functions and
structures, unless the newer side restricts itself to features understood by an
older version.

> This RFC defines crABI 1.0.

Reviewer 3: I know that we feel pretty confident in most of the decisions in this RFC, but since crABI has not seen actual usage, especially regarding interop with other languages, it feels prudent to me if we started at `0.1.0` and allowed ourselves breaking changes, and only decided to move to `1.0` once enough (different) eyes have been laid on the problem.

Versions of crABI will start out as unstable features, and follow the usual
Rust stabilization process. As with any other nightly feature, versions of
crABI may, prior to stabilization, change in ways incompatible with prior
*nightly-only* implementations of that version of crABI. Versions of crABI
should not be considered stable until available in stable Rust.

> Future versions of crABI may also establish allow-by-default lints for the use

Reviewer 4: As a (wildly excited) outsider, this raises a question for me: will the deny-activation of such lints be enough info for the compiler to restrict itself to a lower subset of crABI?

Or must we reserve some kind of "version" specifier in the `repr` attribute? Something like `repr(crABI, u8, v=2.1)`. perhaps a global annotation on the module level, to avoid repetition?

I'm thinking of cases like an enum that would have different possibilities of niche-optimisation under crABI v1, v2, v3..
Does the compiler have access to the active lint selection in the enum layout code?
Are lints even supposed to act like compiler flags to this extent?

of features newer than a particular crABI version; such lints will allow
libraries or modules exposing an ABI to restrict themselves to versions of
crABI compatible with specific other software (e.g. languages or runtimes) they
want to interoperate with.

An implementation of crABI should document which version of crABI it
implements, which compactly conveys supported and unsupported functionality.

> 

Reviewer 5: Having a global `__crabi_version` would cause conflicts if multiple static libraries that export a crABI interface are linked together. And using COMDAT to deduplicatw wouldn't work either if both static libraries use a different crABI version.

appropriate `free` function that passes ownership back.

Lifetimes are incredibly valuable for checking the correctness of pointer
usage, but as lifetimes only exist at compile time, they are not represented in
the ABI. It's the responsibility of a function declaration to define lifetimes
correctly, or to document them in the case of an implementation that doesn't
model lifetimes in its type system.

The crABI ABI also does not encode whether a pointer is mutable or not; both
are passed equivalently. It's the responsibility of API documentation (or API
documentation generators) to reflect whether a pointer permits mutation. Any
language supporting a distinction between mutable and immutable pointers should
reflect this when declaring a crABI type or function.

# Types
[types]: #types

For each type, crABI specifies the translation into C types, either directly or
via other crABI-supported types. Using the type in a struct, union, enum field,
function parameter, or function return value, results in a C-compatible
function equivalent to using the specified translation to C types in place of
the crABI-supported type. This includes the size and alignment of the

> underlying C types.

Reviewer: This (either wording) also contradicts using a different representation for C-compatible `enum`s.

Note that C supports passing and returning structures by value, and the ABIs of
of major targets support passing and returning structures containing multiple
fields in a manner as efficient as passing multiple parameters, such as by
passing or returning multiple struct fields via multiple registers. Thus, crABI
often uses representations involving structures passed or returned by value.
This has the net effect of grouping these together into multiple types, without
introducing unnecessary indirection.

Some crABI representations use an underlying C type but do not use the full
value space of that type. In that case, passing or returning values outside the
valid range invokes undefined behavior. Programs may assume that no values
outside that range are passed or returned, and in particular the compiler may
generate code that does not check this assumption, or may optionally include
validation assertions when debugging.

## `char` - Unicode character type

> crABI supports Unicode characters, which in Rust use the `char` type. This

Reviewer: The original looks correct to me. The suggested replacement has the wrong plural agreement.

> crABI supports Unicode characters, which in Rust use the `char` type. This

Reviewer 6: Ah, I was reading it with "which" referencing something like "the representation of Unicode characters", but I guess it also reads with "which" referencing the Unicode characters themselves.

> crABI supports Unicode characters, which in Rust use the `char` type. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
crABI supports Unicode characters, which in Rust are represented by the `char` type. This
```

translates to the C `uint32_t` type. This type will never contain a value
larger than 0x10FFFF, or a value in the range 0xD800 to 0xDFFF inclusive.

Note that there is no special handling for an array of values of this type,

> which is not equivalent to a string (unless using a UCS-4 encoding).

Reviewer: It's not equivalent to either a NUL-terminated or a counted UCS-4 encoding either.
```suggestion
which is not equivalent to a string.
```

## Zero-sized types (e.g. `()` and `PhantomData`)

crABI supports zero-sized types, such as `()` and `PhantomData`, as long as

> they have an alignment of 1. Thse types have only one value, and require zero

Reviewer 7: Nit:
```suggestion
they have an alignment of 1. These types have only one value, and require zero
```

Pointers and references to zero-sized types are valid in crABI, and are passed
like any other pointer or reference to an opaque Rust type.

## `&T` and `&mut T` - borrowed reference

As with `extern "C"`, crABI supports references (immutable and mutable) to
types. These do not pass ownership of the value, only a pointer to the value.
(Note that crABI 1.0 does not have lifetime information; the provider of an API
must document the lifetime of a reference, and the recipient of the reference
must handle it accordingly.)

Both types of reference are passed as a pointer to the underlying type. The
pointer must never be null.

## Tuple

crABI supports tuples with arbitrarily many fields. These are translated to a
by-value C structure containing fields of the specified types in the same
order. For example:

```rust
extern "crabi" fn func(a: u32, t: cr#(u64, u16), b: i8) -> cr#(u8, u32);
```

is equivalent to:

```c
struct func_t_arg {
    uint64_t f1;
    uint16_t f2;
};
struct func_ret {
    uint8_t f1;
    uint32_t f2;
};
extern struct func_ret func(uint32_t a, struct func_t_arg t, int8_t b);
```

Note that crABI tuples are not the same type as Rust tuples, as Rust tuples do

> not guarantee a stable layout.

Reviewer: This syntax seems like it should be `cr!(...)`, for consistency with `vec![...]` and so that it could actually be implemented as a macro.

## `&[T]` or `&mut [T]` - borrowed slice

crABI supports slices (references to arrays) as long as crABI supports the
element type.

Slices translate to a by-value struct containing two fields: a pointer to the

> element type, and a `size_t` number of elements, in that order.

Reviewer 8: Does this properly translate to the same limitation as rust slices? I.e. at most isize::MAX bytes but at most usize::MAX items (for ZSTs)?

struct f64_boxed_slice {
    double *data;
    size_t len;
};
extern struct f64_boxed_slice func(struct u32_boxed_slice data);
```

## `Box<str>` - boxed counted UTF-8 string

crABI supports passing an owned string. To represent this via the C ABI, crABI
passes this equivalently to a boxed slice of type `Box<[u8]>`.

## `[T; N]` - fixed-size array by value

crABI supports passing a fixed-size array by value (as opposed to by
reference). To represent this via the C ABI, crABI treats this equivalently to
a C array of the same type passed by value.

Note that this means C code can use an array directly in a context where it
will be interpreted by-value (such as in a struct field), but needs to use a
structure with a single array field in contexts where it would otherwise be
interpreted as a pointer (such as in a function argument or return value).

For instance:

```rust
extern "crabi" fn func(rgb: [u16; 3])
```

is equivalent to:

```c
struct func_rgb_arg {
    uint16_t array[3];
};
extern void func(struct func_rgb_arg rgb);
```

Note that crABI does *not* pass the length, since it's a compile-time constant;
the recipient must also know the correct size. (Use one of the slice-based

> types for a type with a runtime-determined length.)

Reviewer 3: I seem to remember issues about zero-sized types in C; what's expected behaviour if `N` is `0`? I'd expect it to act like the other zero-sized types, i.e. the function parameter in it's entirety would just not be there in the C ABI, but that's not entirely clear from the example.

Reviewer 9: I think the `[T; 0]` case might depend on whether the array is passed by reference (address and length) or value (just address). It seems like passing by value is ambiguous here.

Also, what's the expected behaviour for arrays containing zero-sized types?
Is it different for `[(), N]` and `[(), 0]`?
Is it different passing by value and by reference?

Reviewer 5: For the rust abi all ZST's are ignored. Mosy C abi's follow this as well, but on a couple of archs ZST's still consume a register: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/6ef7d16be0fb9d6ecf300c27990f4bff49d22d46/compiler/rustc_ty_utils/src/abi.rs#L419-L421

## `&[T; N]` - fixed-size array by reference

crABI supports passing a fixed-size array by reference. crABI represents this
as a pointer to the element type.

C can represent this as an array (e.g. `uint16_t rgb[3]`) in contexts where
that already implies passing by pointer (such as a function argument or return
value), or translate it explicitly to a pointer (e.g `uint16_t (*rgb)[3]`) in
contexts where just writing the array would imply by-value (such as a struct

> field).

Reviewer 10: The C types `uint16_t *` and `uint16_t (*)[3]` are distinct types. The wording here clearly specifies that the former be used, yet an example uses the latter.

It should be made clear which one to use. And I believe `&[T; N]` should always be lowered to `T (*)[N]`.

> C can represent this as an array (e.g. `uint16_t rgb[3]`) in contexts where
> that already implies passing by pointer (such as a function argument or return
> value)

This can simply be removed. It is true that function parameters declared as arrays are pointers and that returning arrays is illegal, but that doesn’t concern crABI.

## Arbitrary `enum` types

crABI supports arbitrary `enum` types, if declared with `repr(crabi)`. These
are always passed using the same layout that Rust uses for enums with `repr(C)`
and a specified discriminant type:
<https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/type-layout.html#combining-primitive-representations-of-enums-with-fields-and-reprc>

This layout consists of the discriminant, followed by a union of the
representations of each `enum` variant that has fields.

If an `enum` specifies `repr(crabi)` but does not specify a discriminant type,
the `enum` is guaranteed to use the smallest discriminant type that holds the
maximum discriminant value used by a variant in the `enum`.

If the `enum` has no fields, or no fields with a non-zero size, crABI will
represent the `enum` as only its discriminant.

### Guaranteed niche optimization
[niche]: #niche

As a special case, if an `enum` using `repr(crabi)` has exactly two variants,
one of which has no fields and the other of which has a single field, and the

> single field type has a specific type (defined below) with a "niche" value,

Reviewer 8: What about `non_exhaustive`?

Reviewer 11: Is any `non_exhaustive` type eligible for a stable ABI like this? Or would it somehow be limited to extensions in ways that don't break the ABI? Then again, do we have restrictions on adding fields or other layout-affecting changes being made to extant ABI-declared types?

Reviewer 5: `#[non_exhaustive]` doesn't have any effect for the crate that defines the type. Instead it has an effect on users. This means that if the user tried to use a newer version of the type, doing so while using the older version of the code that defined is would be UB without said code being able to report an error for the invalid discriminant. Also extensions to `#[non_exhaustive]` types can only possibly work for the memory layout. The calling convention can drastically change even for adding a single field or enum variant.

types supporting niche optimization.

`core::crabi::Option` and `core::crabi::Result` are analogues to the standard
`Option` and `Result` types, but defined with `repr(crabi)` and guaranteed to
only use niche optimizations specified by crABI. These types support `?` and
convenient bidirectional conversions to/from the Rust `Option` and `Result`
types.

As crABI must specify a precise stable layout, crABI's niche optimization only
applies to the types explicitly listed in the crABI specification, even though
the same type in the Rust ABI may be able to apply niche optimizations in more
cases.

Types that permit niche optimization (using `crabi::Option` as an example and
using the niche value to represent `crabi::None`, both of which are abbreviated
unqualified below for readability):
- `Option<&T>`, `Option<&mut T>`, `Option<NonNull<T>>`, `Option<Box<T>>`, and
  `Option` of any function pointer type are all passed using a null pointer to
  represent `None`.
- `Option<bool>` is passed using a single `u8`, where 0 is `Some(false)`, 1 is
  `Some(true)`, and 2 is `None`.
- `Option<char>` is passed using a single `u32`, where 0 through `0xD7FF` and

>   `0xE000` through `0x10FFFF` are possible `char` values, and `0x110000` is

Reviewer 12: Is there any possibility that unicode could expand the range of  valid code points to include 0x110000? If so would `u32::max()` or one of the surragate pair numbers be better?

Reviewer 13: > Is there any possibility that unicode could expand the range of valid code points to include 0x110000?

Rust assumes it will never happen. That is not the choice I would make, but it is the choice that Rust makes. The Unicode Consortium supposedly will never do this, and it will cause breakage if they do, but of course it is not literally impossible that they might reverse their commitment not to do this.

Reviewer 14: With the way UTF-16 is designed, it's literally impossible to encode unicode scalar values `>= 0x110000`. UTF-8/32 have ways to encode those out-of-range values but unicode almost certainly never will use them because they want UTF-16 to keep working since it's used soo many places: Win32, Java, JavaScript, C#, VB.net, etc.

Reviewer 9: `char` is a Unicode Scalar Value:
https://www.unicode.org/glossary/#unicode_scalar_value

Unicode scalar values outside the defined range are specifically forbidden by the Unicode Standard:
> Ill-formed: A Unicode code unit sequence that purports to be in a Unicode encoding form is called ill-formed if and only if it does not follow the specification of that Unicode encoding form.
> …
> Any code unit sequence that would correspond to a code point outside the defined range of Unicode scalar values would, for example, be ill-formed.

https://www.unicode.org/glossary/#ill_formed_code_unit_sequence

(So expanding the range would be a breaking change for a lot of existing Unicode software.)

Reviewer 6: What is the reason 0x110000 is used for the niche rather than `u32::MAX`?

`repr(crabi)` or `repr(C)`. This makes it difficult to adapt a type from
another library, or to add a crABI interface to an existing Rust library while
preserving its data types.

crABI could (instead of or in addition to `repr(crabi)`) provide a mechanism
that "transforms" a type into the `repr(crabi)` equivalent of that type, to avoid
having to define a separate type. However, this would not handle the problem of
translating between the types, which in the general case of a "deep"
translation could require copying arbitrary in-memory data structures. crABI
does not aim to solve that problem.

The translation of slices and similar uses structs containing pointer/length
pairs, rather than inlining the pointer and length as separate arguments.
[As noted above][types], this is typically passed and returned in an efficient
fashion on major targets. However, in some languages, such as C, this will
require separately defining a structure and then using that structure. This
still seems preferable, though, as combining the two into one struct allows for
uniform handling between arguments, return values, and fields, as well as

> keeping the pointer and length more strongly associated.

Reviewer 15: Passing slices as two arguments (`ptr` then `len`) would allow Rust bindings to existing C code that does this to use slices directly. For example, POSIX `ssize_t send(int sockfd, const void buf, size_t len, int flags)` could be exposed in Rust as

```rust
extern "crABI" { // or perhaps even "C" ?
    fn send(socket: c_int, buf: *const [u8], flags: c_int) -> ssize_t;
}
```

Reviewer 16: passing a structure of two fields is generally different than passing two arguments though, no?

Reviewer 15: Yes, it is generally different. My suggestion is to make them the same for slices with `extern "crABI"`/`extern "C"`, as a special case only for that specific combination.

@programmerjake made a
[proposal](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3470#issuecomment-1674249638)
([sample usage](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3470#issuecomment-1674265515))
to modify the standard impl of `Drop` for `Box` to allow plugging in an
arbitrary function (via a `BoxDrop` trait), to drop the `Box` as a whole. This
would be generally useful (e.g. for object pooling), and would then permit
crABI to define a `box_drop` function that calls an FFI function to free the
object. If we accepted that proposal, it would make sense to use it to
represent crABI boxes.

# Prior art
[prior-art]: #prior-art

Some potential sources of inspiration:

- WebAssembly Interface Types
- Swift's stable ABI
- The `abi_stable` crate (which aims for Rust-to-Rust stability, not
  cross-language interoperation, but it still serves as a useful reference)
- `stabby`
- UniFFI
- Diplomat
- C++'s various ABIs (and the history of its ABI changes). crABI does not,
  however, aim for compatibility with or supersetting of any particular C++
  ABI.

> - Many, many interface description languages (IDLs).

Reviewer 5: The wasm component model has a list type, but currently only allowes owned values. C++ has `string_view` as `&str` counterpart and `span<T>` as `&[T]` counterpart.

> - Many, many interface description languages (IDLs).

Reviewer: Go does: https://go.googlesource.com/go/+/refs/heads/dev.regabi/src/cmd/compile/internal-abi.md

> - Many, many interface description languages (IDLs).

Reviewer 6: > The slice type `[]T` is a sequence of a `*[cap]T` pointer to the slice backing store, an int giving the len of the slice, and an `int` giving the cap of the slice.

That sounds like it may be storage-compatible with the `struct slice { uint8_t *data; size_t len; }` defined here, which is kind of nice. It seems like C compatibility isn't necessarily a goal of go's ABI though so that might be it.

> - Many, many interface description languages (IDLs).

Reviewer 17: I guess you meant (size, pointer), but while libstdc++ uses that one, libc++ (i.e. LLVM's) and Microsoft's use (pointer, size) instead.

For `span` (dynamic), all three use (pointer, size).

Well, at least the versions I looked at.

- The [x86-64 psABI](https://gitlab.com/x86-psABIs/x86-64-ABI). While we're not
  specifying the lowering all the way to specific architectures, we can still
  learn from how it handles various types.
- The [aarch64 ABI](https://github.com/ARM-software/abi-aa/).
- The ABIs of other targets.

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions

- Once we have support for extern types (such as via
  https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3396), pointers and references to
  extern types should work in crABI, just like any other opaque pointer.

- Should the `improper_crabi_types` lint be a hard error, instead?

- Is there a better way we can handle tuple types? Having to use a distinct
  syntax like `cr#()` is onerous; one of the primary values of tuples is

>   brevity. In the future, if we have variadic generics, we could potentially

Reviewer 12: Or, converserly,  variadic generics could build on the crabi tuples. There is definitely some overlap here, since having a tuple with well defined structure, with fields in the declaration order is also useful for using recursion to process the first element of a tuple, and pass the rest of the tuple to next iteration.

Reviewer 18: As you note, there is some overlap, in that both crabi tuples and 'a tuple where you can borrow the tail by reference' (which could potentially used for variadic generics) need the fields to be stored in order.

However, in other ways they have opposite goals.  'A tuple where you can borrow the tail by reference' would likely need to store, e.g., `cr#(u8, u8, u32)` like `cr#(u8, (u8, u32))`.  First, this would be less efficient due to additional padding introduced.  While crABI does already sacrifice layout efficiency to some extent, by giving up reordering and some niche optimizations, that doesn't mean it doesn't care about performance, and this would be an unnecessary extra loss.  Second, given crABI's goal of being easy to bind to other languages, it's beneficial for `cr#(u8, u8, u32)` to translate directly to the obvious C struct equivalent (`struct { uint8_t a; uint8_t b; uint32_t c; }`), rather than to some other structure.

  use a distinct type to avoid freezing the layout of these Rust types for all
  time. But could we do better, somehow? Would an approach based on "type
  transformers" help here?

- Should we provide additional guaranteed niche optimizations for `Option` in
  crABI 1.0? In order to keep new minor revisions of crABI compatible with
  crABI 1.0, any existing type that doesn't have a niche optimization in crABI
  1.0 can never switch to having a niche optimization until a new
  (incompatible) major version, and ideally we want new crABI major versions to
  be rare.

  That said, we should probably keep *most* uses of niche optimizations rare,
  as they require special-case handling in other languages.

- Similarly, should we provide additional guaranteed niche optimizations for
  `Result`? Which ones? The same issue applies: any optimizations we want to
  provide for `Result` on existing types should be in crABI 1.0.

- Should we provide *fewer* niche optimizations? Those for `NonZero` and
  reference types provide obvious value; are those for `bool` and `char` really
  useful enough to justify the special case in languages that will have to

>   handle them explicitly rather than automatically?

Reviewer 9: I haven't seen `Option<bool>` in many APIs, but some string APIs use `Option<char>`. Is there a way to count how popular these types are in libraries?

Reviewer 6: Just loosely, https://github.com/search?q=%22Option%3Cbool%3E%22&type=code shows 199k results for `Optoin<bool>` but only 24.6k for `Option<char>` https://github.com/search?q=%22Option%3Cchar%3E%22&type=code

  or an FFI deallocator parameterized with a `free` function in the type)? Or a
  `ManuallyDrop`? Or should we use a normal `Box`?

- Should crABI support passing owned values that have a non-trivial `Drop`
  implementation, on the assumption that the API will specify that they must be
  passed back to another exported function for freeing (which could call
  `Drop`)? Or should crABI just prohibit types with non-trivial `Drop`
  implementations?

# Future possibilities
[future-possibilities]: #future-possibilities

- crABI makes it easier to define safer interfaces, making it more likely that
  a library can define an interface that doesn't necessarily require `unsafe`
  to call. Thus, crABI would benefit from a mechanism to allow specifying an
  `extern "crabi"` function as explicitly safe, and then not requiring an
  `unsafe` block to call that function. This RFC does not specify such a
  mechanism, but there have been various proposals for such mechanisms for
  `extern "C"`, and those mechanisms should work equivalently for `extern
  "crabi"`.

- Once `extern "C"` supports C-compatible handling of `u128` and `i128`,
  `extern "crabi"` should do the same.

> - Extensible enums. To define types that allow for extension, crABI would

Reviewer 12: Related to this, there are probably situations where it would be useful to declare a size and/or alignment of an enum to be larger than necessary, for future compatibility  to allow adding new data that would otherwise change the ABI.

Reviewer 19: Padding fields are not ideal either as they can end up in JSON or toString representations too easily where they are noise at best and a bug at worst.

Reviewer: Maybe the same issue: we have found it difficult to safely define a Rust type corresponding to a C or C++ `enum`, because an out-of-range representation of a Rust enum is immediate UB, unlike in C/C++.

Example: https://github.com/zcash/zcash/blob/2112e467ee31ea95cf81904a6aae397fa3d031ae/src/rust/src/zip339_ffi.rs#L11-L37

and the corresponding C/C++ type:
https://github.com/zcash/zcash/blob/2112e467ee31ea95cf81904a6aae397fa3d031ae/src/rust/include/rust/zip339.h#L17-L38
